Ambassador last week in the German
Parliament the bundestag chancellor
Schultz uh criticized the president of
the Palestinian Authority Mahmud abas
for not having reacted to what was
taking place in Gaza and in Israel at
the time uh saying that he thought it
was a shameful way of reacting or not
reacting why did it take so long do you
think for a reaction to come from
president us well first thank you very
much for having me and I think that uh
no one took any time to express uh our
position Vis A the events that have been
unfolding uh in the last uh nine days or
the events that have been unfolding uh
the last 75 years let me be very clear
we've been uh condemning violence for 75
years we've been condemning uh terrorism
for 75 years we've been calling on the
International Community to intervene to
implement international law to uphold
the human rights for 75 years we've
signed a historic peace agreement a
peace agreement that was signed by his
Excellency president abas
himself uh that promised a better future
for all the children and peoples of the
region we remained committed to that
agreement we remained committed to the
agreements that ensued we remain
committed to international law and to
humanitarian law and to Human Rights and
we remain committed to these agreements
as we speak despite the fact that every
single agreement every single provision
in those agreements were violated by
Israel had those agreements been honored
had those agreements been respected had
the International Community
intervened to bring Israel to commit to
those agreements we would have been in a
different place today so
I I I I would respectfully
disagree uh with the assumption that we
took our time to express our opinion I
think that uh you took your time in
hearing us out so you are saying you
said you condemn terrorism uh does that
include these attacks of hamus do you
condemn them as terrorism on Israel I've
told you where we stand we condemn civil
the killings of civilians everywhere we
reject the killings and targeting of
civilians
everywhere irrespective of nationality
race or
religion we call for the immediate
release of
hostages uh prisoners
detainees on both sides we wish to see
an immediate end to the ongoing
aggression that has so far claimed the
lives of thousands of innocent people we
wish to see the current trajectory the
of which only
portends the death and murder of
thousands more we wish to see an end to
the current trajectory and that
trajectory is not going to end without a
meaningful serious intervention by the
International Community what kind of
intervention are you talking about to
bring Israel to end the aggression what
is happening today in Gaza as you see is
an
unbridled aggression that is targeting
the most innocent
the people that had no hand or decision
in the conflict that has started not 9
days ago but has been ongoing for 75
years that have been paying the price
for this
inhumane conflict the continuation of
which is untenable does not make sense
is in breach of every international law
of every humanitarian principle of every
morality every fact every principle of
decency the Israel and also Germany the
United States have said this aggression
has been started by that attack of Hamas
on Israel otherwise there wouldn't be
this conflict going on at the moment I
think I think the conflict has been
ongoing for 75
years I think the occupation the illegal
occupation of Palestine has been ongoing
for many decades I think that the peace
agreements that we sign
mind promised an end to the conflict 24
years ago they have been breached this
conflict it's important as ugly as the
events that we're all witnessing are it
is important not to lose sight of the
fact that this conflict did not start
eight or nine days ago this conflict has
been ongoing for decades we've seen
we've seen in the last 10 years alone at
least four uh assaults on the Gaza Strip
military assaults that have claimed the
lives of thousands of innocent people
that's not forget the ongoing the
unhinged the unabated assaults that have
been taking place against the innocent
civilians in the West Bank have been
ongoing for years have been ongoing for
years had the International Community
rid its support behind a peace process
that would end an that would bring an
end to this conflict on the basis of
international law on the basis of the
signed agreements on the basis of the
United Nations security Council
resolutions we would have been in a
different place now what role can the
Palestinian Authority play in this
process now what help can you offer the
people of Gaza do you have any influence
on Hamas at
all our number one priority right now is
to bring an end to the ongoing
aggression that's our top top priority
our top priority is to protect the
innocent and civilians that are by that
are being targeted by this ongoing
aggression and the aggression end the
war save lives that's our that's our
priority but what can you do to do to to
achieve that once again we have made our
position abundantly clear we reject the
killing of innocent civilians we renew
the call for ending the targeting of uh
uh civilians everywhere we call for an
immediate release or all hostages
detes prisoners on both sides and we are
exerting every possible effort with the
International Community for a meaningful
intervention that would bring an end to
this aggression okay so you are
influencing the International Community
in turn to influence Israel to stop the
aggression is that your position at this
point blood is being spilled on the on
on on the
streets uh neighborhoods are being uh
destroyed one neighborhood at a time
over 1 million Palestinians are being
forcibly uh uh expelled from their
homes uh the continuation of the current
aggression would lead probably to the
expulsion of the Palestinians as was
made clear by uh by by by the official
Israeli spokespersons as one of the uh
objectives of the ongoing aggression is
to expel uh the Palestinian people
living in Gaza from the Gaza Strip we
are witnessing a catastrophe we are
witnessing the continuation of the
current trajectory portends another
nakba our number one priority now is to
save lives is to bring an end to the
aggression is to save the lives of the
innocent people from all
sides now German Chancellor Olaf schs is
in Israel is visiting Israel today um as
a show of solidarity also in terms of
diplom diplomacy Germany says that
protecting Israel or the existence of
Israel is part of its um it's called ST
which as I say in German so a
fundamental principle of the German
State what role can Germany play in this
whole situation
well I think this question ought to be
asked to the government to give an
explanation as what the concept
ofon uh uh uh actually means but uh I'm
100%
confident that also Germany is sincere
uh when it comes to its commitment to
international law to International
humanitarian law and to human rights law
and uh it's clear that the current
events are in grave contradiction of
international law of international
humanitarian in law hence the values
that Germany Champions and stands
for now uh you've repeatedly criticized
um that here in Germany demonstrations
in favor of Palestinians Pro Palestinian
demonstrations have been uh
banned um the police have said that
these will lead to incitement to uh hate
crimes possibly what can be done to to
kind of
how shall I say to calm tempers here in
Germany amongst the Palestinian
Community well first and foremost let me
uh make myself very clear we reject
incitement we reject all forms of hate
speech this
applies Palestine and certainly applies
here in
Germany and I think in order to address
incitement one needs to address the root
causes of incitement and let's not lose
sight of the the fact that the events on
the ground are the most powerful source
of incitement the events on the ground
are the ones that are fueling all the
emotions amongst everyone that being
said I urge everyone to respect the laws
to respect the values of the societies
and as much as I urge each and every
citizen to do so I urge the authorities
in every capital and particularly in the
capitals of the Free World also to
respect the laws and to respect the
values that serve as a distinctive Mark
in these societies such as the values of
free speech and
expression I believe I
believe that these values or the wide
space for free
expression is being Abed probably
unintentionally probably out of impulse
but this is where author parties should
intervene reassess I assure you that the
rallies and events that are being most
of them that are being
restricted wish to express rejection to
war rejection to violence rejection to
attempts to violate international law
they are calling for upholding human
rights I think it would be uh
inappropriate unwise to restrict them
now what do what chance do you see for
peace what what is your vision for
Gaza as you would
imagine I'm very
sad I'm very
upset I'm
worried for the millions that are being
made to pay the price of this conflict
the millions of innocent
people I the heart breaks for the
innocent civilians that have already
been claimed during this
conflict at the same
time
I'm equally sad for what is going to
come unless this trajectory this current
War does not end now that is why we are
appealing to the International Community
we are appealing to International
organizations we are appealing to world
leaders to intervene to bring an un to
this aggression they ought to remember
that the ones who are paying the price
for this aggression for this conflict
are the most innocent we're talking
about
2,600 700 Palestinians have already been
killed we're talking about over 800
children have already been killed over
half uh of whom are under the age of
10 8 million kilg of explosives have
already been dropped on Gaza the total
area of which is around 1/3 the total
area of Berlin meaning that 4 kilg have
already been dropped on Gaza for each
citizen we appeal to the International
Community to bring an end to this
conflict Justice is the way forward not
Vengeance okay we can say if there is an
appeal to the International Community
you can say that the West the United
States Germany have influence on one
part in this conflict Israel who has
influence on Hamas who can stop
Hamas I
think peace is the
answer addressing the root causes of the
conflict is the answer I think we should
not lose sight of that fact I think that
we should address the environment that
leads to the violence which we
reject and I think peace is the answer
that is why I think that the
International Community should focus its
efforts on what's on what needs to be
done to bring about a genuine solution
to this conflict on the basis of
international legitimacy and I think
that if the International Community
wishes to do so it can do so Ambassador
thank you very much for speaking to DW
thank you for having
me